Collaborative filtering methods largely fall in two categories.
The first is known as model based collaborative filtering,
which uses machine learning techniques to make recommendations.
This will be discussed in the next lesson.
The second of these is known as
neighborhood based collaborative filtering which we'll cover now.
The name neighborhood is used to suggest that we're
interested in finding individuals that are closely related to one another.
We saw Jesse and Sam were highly related because they had watched the same movies.
Therefore, they are closer neighbors than say,
Noah, who has not seen any of these movies.
I like to think of identifying neighborhoods in two possible ways.
One is measuring similarity and the second is measuring distance.
You might be thinking these sound like they're the same thing and they are very similar.
Common measures of similarity include Pearson's correlation coefficient,
Spearman's correlation coefficient and Kendall's tau.
Each of these measures takes on a value in the range between negative one and one.
When using any of these measures,
as values move closer to one,
this suggests that two individuals are more similar.
For making recommendations, we want to find users that have the highest values of
these coefficients and they are most similar and therefore live in closer neighborhoods.
Distance based measures include Euclidian Distance and Manhattan Distance.
Alternative to similarity based metrics,
we want to find small values of these measures.
Distance based metrics range from zero to essentially infinity.
The closer these values are to zero,
the more similar two individuals are to one another.
Identifying neighborhoods with these metrics means
finding individuals who are closer to zero.
Choosing an appropriate metric is highly contingent on your particular situation.
In the upcoming concepts,
you will become more familiar with these metrics and we'll see
why some metrics just don't work as well for our situation.